Best AWS Interview Questions and Answers

Q1) What is AWS?
Ans:  AWS stands for Amazon Web Services. AWS is a platform that provides on-demand resources for hosting web services, storage, networking, databases and other resources over the
internet with a pay-as-you-go pricing.

Q2) What are the components of AWS?
Answer:EC2 Elastic Compute Cloud, S3 Simple Storage Service, Route53, EBS Elastic BlocknStore, Cloudwatch, Key-Paris are few of the components of AWS.

Q3) What are key-pairs?
Answer:Key-pairs are secure login information for your instances/virtual machines. To connect to the instances we use key-pairs that contain a public-key and private-key.

Q4) What is S3?
Answer:
S3 stand for simple storage service with a simple web interface to store and retrive any amount of data from any where on the web
   - Bucket name must be globally unique 
   - S3 Service is a Global service and Bucket is created in Region
   - You can use S3 Bucket for static Website hosting 
   

Q5) What are the pricing models for EC2instances?
Answer:The different pricing model for EC2 instances are as below,
On-demand
Reserved
Spot
Scheduled
Dedicated

Q6) What are the types of volumes for EC2 instances?
Answer:
There are two types of volumes,Instance store volumes
EBS Elastic Block Stores

Q7) What are EBS volumes?
Answer:EBS vloume behave like RAW unformatted extrenal block storage device that you can attch to your Ec2 instance.
-EBS vloume are block storage device sutaible for databases style data that requried frequent read and right 
-Both EBS volume and EC2 instances must be in same AZ
 

Q8) What are the types of volumes in EBS?
Answer:Following are the types of volumes in EBS,
General purpose
Provisioned IOPS
Magnetic
Cold HDD
Throughput optimized

Q9) What are the different types of instances?
Answer: Following are the types of instances,
General purpose
Computer Optimized
Storage Optimized
Memory Optimized
Accelerated Computing

Q10) What is an auto-scaling and what are the components?Answer: Auto scaling allows you to automatically scale-IN and scale-Out  the number of instances depending on the CPU utilization or memory utilization.  
Scale-IN and Scale-Out are to different status of auto scaling 
         Scale-IN :Reducing Instances 
         Scale-Out : Increasing the Instances by Dublicating   
There are components in
 Scaling Policy
 Auto-scaling groups 
 Launch Configuration.
Launch Template 

We have 2 types of AUto-scaling Strategies:
1)  Manual Scaling means we need to edit ASG and add number of instances 
2) Dyanamic SCaling :
    a) Simple/ Step Scaling : 
       - You can use Cloud Watch alram to triggered when utiliztion goes 80 percent 
    b) target trekking Scaling: 
       - If we want to average AGS CPU to stay in 40 Percent 
    c) Scheduled Scaling: 
       - Increasing Scing Capacity to 10 at 5 AM on Friday 
Q11) What are reserved instances?
Answer: Reserved instances are the instance that you can reserve a fixed capacity of EC2 instances. In reserved instances you will have to get into a contract of 1 year or 3 years.

Q12)What is an AMI?
Answer: AMI stands for Amazon Machine Image. AMI is a template that contains the software configurations, launch permission and a block device mapping that specifies the volume to attach to the instance when it is launched.






Q13) What is an EIP ?
Answer:An Elastic IP address is a reserved public IP address that you can assign to any EC2 instance in a particular region, until you choose to release it.

Q14) What is Cloudwatch ?
Answer: Cloudwatch is a monitoring tool that you can use to monitor your various AWS resources. Like health check, network, Application, etc.

Q15) What are the types in cloudwatch?
Answer: There are 2 types in cloudwatch. 
Basic monitoring and detailed monitoring. Basic monitoring is free and detailed monitoring is chargeable.

Q16) What are the cloudwatch metrics that are available for EC2 instances?
Answer: Diskreads, Diskwrites, CPU utilization, networkpacketsIn, networkpacketsOut,
networkIn, networkOut, CPUCreditUsage, CPUCreditBalance.

Q17) What is the minimum and maximum size of individual objects that you can store in S3 ?
Answer: The minimum size of individual objects that you can store in S3 is 0 bytes and the
maximum bytes that you can store for individual objects is 5TB.

Q18) What are the different storage classes in S3?
Answer: Following are the types of storage classes in S3,
  1) Amazon S3-Standrad  
  2) Amazon S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval storage class
  4) Amazon S3 Standrad infrequent access 
  5) Amazon S3 One zone infrequent access 
  6) Amazon S3 Intelligent tearing
  7) Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive
  8) S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval 


 
Q19) What is the default storage class in S3?
Answer: The default storage class in S3 in Standard frequently accessed.

Q20) What is glacier?
Answer: Glacier is the back up or archival tool that you use to back up your data in S3.

Q21) How can you secure the access to your S3 bucket?
Answer: There are two ways that you can control the access to your S3 buckets,
            1)ACL Access Control List
            2)Bucket polices

Q22) How can you encrypt data in S3?
Answer: You can use 
             Server Side Encryption S3 (AES 256 encryption)
             Server Side Encryption KMS (Key management Service)
             Server Side Encryption C (Client Side)

Q23) What are the parameters for S3 pricing?
Answer: The pricing model for S3 is as below,
             Storage used
             Number of requests you make
             Storage management
             Data transfer
             Transfer acceleration
Q24) What is the pre-requisite to work with Cross region replication in S3?
Answer: You need to enable versioning on both source bucket and destination to work with cross region replication. Also both the source and destination bucket should be in different region.

Q25) What are roles?
Answer: Roles are for AWS services, Where we can assign permission of some AWS service to other Service.þÿ Example Giving S3 permission to EC2 to access S3 Bucket Contents.
-
Q26) What are policies and what are the types of policies?
Answer: Policies are for users and groups, Where we can assign permission to user s and groups. Example Giving permission to user to access the S3 Buckets. 
Types of policies.
        Managed policies
        Inline policies
AWS managed policy is a standalone policy that is created and administered by AWS. Standalone policy means that the policy has its own Amazon Resource Name
An inline policy is a policy that's embedded in an IAM identity (a user, group, or role).






Q27) What is cloudfront?

Answer: CloudFront is the content delivery network in AWS. In CloudFront, you have edge locations that act as your cache locations that are utilized by CloudFront to cache the contents.

Q28) What are edge locations?

Answer: Edge location is the place where the contents will be cached. When a user tries to access some content, the content will be searched in the edge location. If it is not available then the content will be made available from the origin location and a copy will be stored in the edge location.

Q29) What is the maximum individual archive that you can store in glacier?
Answer: You can store a maximum individual archive of upto 40 TB.

Q30) What is VPC?
Answer: 
Ans: VPC stand for Virtual Private Cloud that Amazon VPC enables you to connect your on-premises resources to AWS infrastructure through a virtual private network .Once we create VPC bydefult its created security group ;DHCP and network ACl
-we can create 5 VPC in region and In 1 VPC we can create 200 Subnets 
-1 VPC you can have 200 Route tables and you can defind 50 route entry in 1 route table 

Q31) What is VPC peering connection?
Answer: A VPC peering connection is a networking connection between two VPCs that enables you to route traffic between them using private IPv4 addresses or IPv6 addresses.

Q32) What are NAT gateways?
Answer: NAT stands for Network Address Translation. NAT gateways enables instances in a private subnet to connect to the internet 
NAT gateway is attched in public subnet and its use for private gateway

Q33) How can you control the security to your VPC?
Answer: You can use security groups and NACL (Network Access Control List) to control the security to your VPC.



Q34) What are the different types of storage gateway?
Answer: Following are the types of storage gateway.
                 File gateway
                 Volume gateway
                 Tape gateway

Q35) What is a snowball?
Answer: Snowball is a data transport solution you can move huge amount of data from one place to another which reduces your network costs,  transfer times and also provides better security.

Q36) What are the database types in RDS?
Answer: Following are the types of databases in RDS,
Aurora
Oracle
MYSQL server
Postgresql
MariaDB
SQL server

Q37) What is a redshift?
Answer: Amazon redshift is a data warehouse product. It is a fast and powerful, fully managed, petabyte scale data warehouse service in the cloud.

Q38) What is SNS?
Answer: SNS stands for Simple Notification Service. SNS is a web service that makes it easy to notifications from the cloud. You can set up SNS to receive email notification or message notification.

Q39) What are the types of routing polices in route53?
Answer: Following are the types of routing policies in route53,
Simple routing
Latency routing
Failover routing
Geolocation routing
Weighted routing
Multivalue answer

Q40) What is the maximum size of messages in SQS?
Answer: The maximum size of messages in SQS is 256 KB.



Q41) What are the types of queues in SQS?
Answer: There are 2 types of queues in SQS.
Standard queue
FIFO (First In First Out)

Q42) What is multi-AZ RDS?
Answer: 
Multi-AZ (Availability Zone) RDS allows you to have a replica of your production database in another availability zone. Multi-AZ (Availability Zone) database is used for disaster recovery. You will have an exact copy of your database. So when your primary database goes down, your application will automatically failover to the standby database.

Q43) What are the types of backups in RDS database?

Answer: There are 2 types of backups in RDS database.
Automated backups ,Manual backups which are known as snapshots.

Q44) What is the difference between security groups and network access control list?
Ans: -Security Group defind which traffic is allowed TO or FROM Ec2 Instance 
      -Where as  ACL  control at the subnet level,  The traffic allowd and deny  TO or FROM a Subnet
      
          ---> Network ACLs are applicable at the subnet level, so any instance in the subnet with an associated NACL will follow rules of NACL. That’s not the case with security groups, security groups has to be assigned explicitly to the instance.
This means any instances within the subnet group gets the rule applied. With Security group, you have to manually assign a security group to the instances.
          ---> State: Stateful or Stateless
Security groups are stateful. This means any changes applied to an incoming rule will be automatically applied to the outgoing rule. e.g. If you allow an incoming port 80, the outgoing port 80 will be automatically opened.

Network ACLs are stateless. This means any changes applied to an incoming rule will not be applied to the outgoing rule. e.g. If you allow an incoming port 80, you would also need to apply the rule for outgoing traffic.

Q45) What are the types of load balancers in EC2?
Answer: There are 3 types of load balancers,
Application load balancer
Network load balancer
Classic load balancer

Q46) What is and ELB?
Answer: ELB stands for Elastic Load balancing. ELB automatically distributes the incoming application traffic or network traffic across multiple targets like EC2, containers, IP addresses.

Q47) What are the two types of access that you can provide when you are creating users?
Answer: Following are the two types of access that you can create.
Programmatic access
Console access

Q48) What are the benefits of auto scaling?
Answer: Following are the benefits of auto scaling
          Better fault tolerance
          Better availability
          Better cost management
Q49) What are security groups?
Answer: A security group acts as a virtual firewall for your EC2 instances to control inbound and outbound traffic

Q50) What are shared AMI s?
Answer: Shared AMI s are the AMI that are created by other developed and made available for other developed to use.

Q51)What is the difference between the classic load balancer and application load balancer?
Answer: Dynamic port mapping, multiple port multiple listeners is used in Application Load Balancer, One port one listener is used in Classic Load Balancer

Q52) By default how many Ip address does aws reserve in a subnet?
Answer: 5

Q53) What is meant by subnet?
Answer:When network has more number of hosts, manageing these hosts can be tedious under single large network; there for we divied large network with  easily manageble subnetwork so manageing hosts under each subnet become easier 

Q54) How can you convert a public subnet to private subnet?
Answer: Remove IGW & add NAT Gateway, Associate subnet in Private route table

Q55) Is it possible to reduce a ebs volume?
Answer: no it s not possible, we can increase it but not reduce them

Q56) What is the use of elastic ip are they charged by AWS?
Answer: Elastic IP address is used to connect the internet yes they are charged if instance in shutown mode or if elastic IP address not attached to any instaance 




Q57) One of my s3 is bucket is deleted but i need to restore is there any possible way?
Answer: If versioning is enabled we can quickly restore them

Versioning: 
        - You Can Version your file in S3
        - It is enabled in a bucket level 
        - Once you enable the version its not disabled its suspended 
Amazon S3 Replication :
        - S3 CRR (Cross Region Replication ): 
          - For that You need to enable Versioning on both Bucket 
        - S3 SRR (Same Region Replication ): 
          - 

Q58) When I try to launch an ec2 instance i am getting the Service limit exceed, how to fix the issue?
Answer: By default AWS offers a service limit of 20 running instances per region, to fix the issue we need to contact AWS support to increase the limit based on the requirement

Q59) I need to modify the ebs volumes in Linux and windows is it possible
Answer: yes its possible from console use modify volumes in section give the size u need then
for windows go to disk management for Linux mount it to achieve the modification

Q60) Is it possible to stop a RDS instance, how can I do that?
Answer: Yes it s possible to stop rds. Instance which are non-production and non multi AZ s

Q61) What is meant by parameter groups in rds. And what is the use of it?
Answer: A parameter group acts as a container for engine configuration values that are applied to one or more DB instances.
Q62) What is the use of tags and how they are useful?
Answer: Tags are used for identification and grouping AWS Resources

Q63) I am viewing an AWS Console but unable to launch the instance, I receive an IAM Error how can I rectify it?
Answer: As AWS user I don t have access to use it, I need to have permissions to use it further

Q64) I don t want my AWS Account id to be exposed to users how can I avoid it?
Answer: In IAM console there is option as sign in url where I can rename my own account name with AWS account




Q65) By default how many Elastic Ip address does AWS Offer?
Answer: 5 elastic ip per region

Q66) You are enabled sticky session with ELB. What does it do with your instance?
Answer: Binds the user session with a specific instance

Q67) Which type of load balancer makes routing decisions at either the transport layer or theApplication layer and supports either EC2 or VPC.
Answer: Classic Load Balancer

Q68) Which is virtual network interface that you can attach to an instance in a VPC?
Answer: Elastic Network Interface

68) What is Elastic network interface ?
An elastic network interface is a logical networking component in a VPC that represents a virtual network card


Q69) You have launched a Linux instance in AWS EC2. While configuring security group, you Have selected SSH, HTTP, HTTPS protocol. Why do we need to select SSH?
Answer: To verify that there is a rule that allows traffic from EC2 Instance to your computer

Q70) You have chosen a windows instance with Classic and you want to make some change to the Security group. How will these changes be effective?
Answer: Changes are automatically applied to windows instances

Q71) Load Balancer and DNS service comes under which type of cloud service?
Answer: IAAS-Storage

Q72) You have an EC2 instance that has an unencrypted volume. You want to create another Encrypted volume from this unencrypted volume. Which of the following steps
can achieve this?
Answer: Create a snapshot of the unencrypted volume (applying encryption parameters), copy the. Snapshot and create a volume from the copied snapshot





Q73) Where does the user specify the maximum number of instances with the auto scaling Commands?
Answer: Auto scaling Launch Config

Q74) Which are the types of AMI provided by AWS?
Answer: Instance Store backed, EBS Backed

Q75) After configuring ELB, you need to ensure that the user requests are always attached to a Single instance. What setting can you use?
Answer: Sticky session ----Need to learn about Sticky session

Sticky Session : Application Load Balancer routes each request independently to a registered target based on the chosen load-balancing algorithm. However, you can use the sticky session feature (also known as session affinity) to enable the load balancer to bind a user's session to a specific target. This ensures that all requests from the user during the session are sent to the same target. This feature is useful for servers that maintain state information in order to provide a continuous experience to clients. To use sticky sessions, the client must support cookies.

Q76) When do I prefer to Provisioned IOPS over the Standard RDS storage?x
Answer:If you have do batch-oriented is workloads.

Q77) If I am running on my DB Instance a Multi-AZ deployments, can I use to the stand by the DB Instance for read or write a operation along with to primary DB instance?
Answer: Primary db instance does not working.

Q78) Which the AWS services will you use to the collect and the process e-commerce data for the near by real-time analysis?
Answer: Good of Amazon DynamoDB.

Q79) A company is deploying the new two-tier an web application in AWS. The company has to limited on staff and the requires high availability, and the application requires to complex queries and table joins. Which configuration provides to the solution for company s requirements?
Answer: An web application provide on Amazon DynamoDB solution.

Q80) Which the statement use to cases are suitable for Amazon DynamoDB?
Answer:The storing metadata for the Amazon S3 objects& The Running of relational joins and complex an updates.








Q94) Which of the services to you would not use to deploy an app?
Answer: Lambda app not used on deploy.

Q95) How do the Elastic Beanstalk can apply to updates?
Answer: By a duplicate ready with a updates prepare before swapping.


Q111) What is Cloud Computing?
Answer:
Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet. These resources include tools and applications like data storage, servers, databases, networking, and software.

Q112) Why we go for Cloud Computing?
Answer:
Lower computing cost
Improved Performance
No IT Maintenance
Business connectivity
Easily upgraded
Device Independent

Q113) What are the deployment models using in Cloud?
Answer:
Private Cloud
Public Cloud
Hybrid cloud
Community cloud 4

Q114) Explain Cloud Service Models?
Answer: 
SAAS (Software as a Service): Software as a service (SaaS) allows users to connect  and use cloud-based apps over the Internet 
(Ex: Google drive, drop box)

PAAS (Platform as a Service): Platform as a service (PaaS) is a cloud computing model where a third-party provider delivers hardware and software tools to users over the internet. (Ex: AWS ElasticBeanstalk, Windows Azure)


                                            OR
Its a Third-party provider that delivers hardware and software tools to user over the internet (Ex: AWS ElasticBeanstalk, Windows Azure)
 
IAAS (Infrastructure as a Service): It provides virtualized computing
resources over the internet like cpu, memory, switches, routers, firewall, Dns, Load balancer (Ex: Azure, AWS)

Q115) What are the advantage of Cloud Computing?
Answer:
Pay per use
Scalability
Elasticity
High Availability
Increase speed and Agility



Q117) What is mean by Region, Availability Zone and Edge Location?
Answer: AWS regions are separate geographical areas, like the US-West (North California) and Asia South (Mumbai). On the other hand, availability zones are the areas that are present inside the regions. These are generally isolated zones that can replicate themselves whenever required.
Edge Locations: Edge location is the place where the contents will be cached. When a user tries to access some content, the content will be searched in the edge location. If it is not available then the content will be made available from the origin location and a copy will be stored in the edge location.


Q118) How to access AWS Platform?
Answer:
AWS Console
AWS CLI (Command line interface)
AWS SDK (Software Development Kit)

Q119) What is EC2? What are the benefits in EC2?
Amazon Elastic compute cloud is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud.
Benefits:
Easier and Faster
Elastic and Scalable
High Availability
Cost-Effective
                              OR
most well-known services, offers businesses the ability to run applications on the public cloud. 



Q123) How to Addressing AWS EC2 instances?
Answer:
Public Domain name system (DNS) name: When you launch an instance AWS creates a DNSname that can be used to access the
Public IP: A launched instance may also have a public ip address This IP address assigned from the address reserved by AWS and cannot be specified.
Elastic IP: An Elastic IP Address is an address unique on the internet that you reserve independently and associate with Amazon EC2 instance. This IP Address persists until the customer release it and is not tried to

Q125) When your instance show retired state?
Answer:Retired state only available in Reserved instances. Once the reserved instance reserving time (1 yr/3 yr) ends it shows Retired state.

Q126) Scenario: My EC2 instance IP address change automatically while instance stop and start. What is the reason for that and explain solution?
Answer:AWS assigned Public IP automatically but it s change dynamically while stop and start. In that case we need to assign Elastic IP for that instance, once assigned it doesn t change
automatically.
Q127) What is Elastic Beanstalk?
Answer:AWS Elastic Beanstalk is the fastest and simplest way to get an application up and running on AWS.Developers can simply upload their code and the service automatically handle
all the details such as resource provisioning, load balancing, Auto scaling and Monitoring.

Q128) What is Amazon Lightsail?
Answer:Lightsail designed to be the easiest way to launch and manage a virtual private server with AWS.Lightsail plans include everything you need to jumpstart your project a virtual machine,ssd based storage, data transfer, DNS Management and a static ip.



Q129) What is EBS?
Answer:Amazon EBS Provides persistent block level storage volumes for use with Amazon EC2
instances. Amazon EBS volume is automatically replicated with its availability zone to protect component failure offering high availability and durability. Amazon EBS volumes are available in
a variety of types that differ in performance characteristics and Price.



AWS Elastic Block Store (EBS) is Amazon's block-level storage solution used with the EC2 cloud service to store persistent data. This means that the data is kept on the AWS EBS servers even when the EC2 instances are shut down




Q130) How to compare EBS Volumes?
Answer: Magnetic Volume: Magnetic volumes have the lowest performance characteristics of all Amazon EBS volume types.
EBS Volume size: 1 GB to 1 TB Average IOPS: 100 IOPS Maximum
throughput: 40-90 MB General-Purpose SSD: General purpose SSD volumes offers cost-effective storage that is ideal for a broad range of workloads. General purpose SSD volumes are billed
based on the amount of data space provisioned regardless of how much of data you actually store on the volume.
EBS Volume size: 1 GB to 16 TB Maximum IOPS: upto 10000 IOPS Maximum throughput: 160 MB Provisioned IOPS SSD: Provisioned IOPS SSD volumes are designed to meet
the needs of I/O intensive workloads, particularly database workloads that are sensitive to
storage performance and consistency in random access I/O throughput. Provisioned IOPS SSD
Volumes provide predictable, High performance.
EBS Volume size: 4 GB to 16 TB Maximum IOPS:
upto 20000 IOPS Maximum throughput: 320 MB

Q131) What is cold HDD and Throughput-optimized HDD?
Answer: Cold HDD: Cold HDD volumes are designed for less frequently accessed workloads.These volumes are significantly less expensive than throughput-optimized HDD volumes.EBSVolume size: 500 GB to 16 TB Maximum IOPS: 200 IOPS Maximum throughput: 250 MB
Throughput-Optimized HDD: Throughput-optimized HDD volumes are low cost HDD volumesdesigned for frequent access, throughput-intensive workloads such as big data, data warehouse.
EBS Volume size: 500 GB to 16 TB Maximum IOPS: 500 IOPS Maximum throughput: 500 MB

Q132) What is Amazon EBS-Optimized instances?
Answer: Amazon EBS optimized instances to ensure that the Amazon EC2 instance is prepared to
take advantage of the I/O of the Amazon EBS Volume. An amazon EBS-optimized instance uses an optimized configuration stack and provide additional dedicated capacity for Amazon EBS I/When you select Amazon EBS-optimized for an instance you pay an additional hourly charge for that instance.


Q133) What is EBS Snapshot?
Answer:
It can back up the data on the EBS Volume. Snapshots are incremental backups. If this is your first snapshot it may take some time to create. Snapshots are point in time copies of volumes.

Q134) How to connect EBS volume to multiple instance?
þÿAnswer: Amazon EBS Multi-Attach enables you to attach a single Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1 or io2) volume to multiple instances that are in the same Availability Zone.


Q135) What are the virtualization types available in AWS?
Answer: Hardware assisted Virtualization: HVM guests are fully virtualized. It means that the VMs running on top of their hypervisors are not aware that they are sharing processing time with other clients on the same hardware. The host should have the capability to emulate underlying hardware for each of its guest machines. This virtualization type provides the ability to run an operating system directly on top of a virtual machine without any modification — as if it were run on the bare-metal hardware. The advantage of this is that HVMs can use hardware extensions which provide very fast access to underlying hardware on the host system

Para virtualization: Paravirtualization, on the other hand, is a lighter form of virtualization. This technique is fast and provides near native speed in comparison to full virtualization. With Paravirtualization, the guest operating system requires some modification before everything can work. These modifications allow the hypervisor to export a modified version of the underlying hardware to the VMs, allowing them near-native performance. All PV machines running on a hypervisor are basically modified operating systems like Solaris or various Linux distributions

Q136) Differentiate Block storage and File storage?
Answer:
Block Storage: Block storage operates at lower level, raw storage device level and manages data as a set of numbered, fixed size blocks.
File Storage: File storage operates at a higher level, the operating system level and manage data as a named hierarchy of files and
folders.



Q137) What are the advantage and disadvantage of EFS? 

Advantages:
Answer:
Fully managed service
File system grows and shrinks automatically to petabytes
Can support thousands of concurrent connections
Multi AZ replication
Throughput scales automatically to ensure consistent low latency 

Disadvantages:
Not available in all region
Cross region capability not available
More complicated to provision compared to S3 and EBS

Q138) what are the things we need to remember while creating s3 bucket?
Answer:
Amazon S3 and Bucket names areThis means bucket names must be unique across all AWS
Bucket names can contain upto 63 lowercase letters, numbers, hyphens and
You can create and use multiple buckets
You can have upto 100 per account by

Q139) What are the storage class available in Amazon s3?
Answer:
Amazon S3 Standard
Amazon S3 Standard-Infrequent Access
Amazon S3 Reduced Redundancy Storage
Amazon Glacier
Get AWS Online Training
Q140) Explain Amazon s3 lifecycle rules?
Answer: Amazon S3 lifecycle configuration rules, you can significantly reduce your storage costs
by automatically transitioning data from one storage class to another or even automatically delete
data after a period of time.
Store backup data initially in Amazon S3 Standard
After 30 days, transition to Amazon Standard IA
After 90 days, transition to Amazon Glacier
After 3 years, delete


Q141) What is the relation between Amazon S3 and AWS KMS?
Answer: To encrypt Amazon S3 data at rest, you can use several variations of Server-Side
Encryption. Amazon S3 encrypts your data at the object level as it writes it to disks in its dataþÿcenters and decrypt it for you when you access it ll SSE performed by Amazon S3 and AWS Key
Management Service (AWS KMS) uses the 256-bit Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).

Q142) What is the function of cross region replication in Amazon S3?
Answer: Cross region replication is a feature allows you asynchronously replicate all new objects in the source bucket in one AWS region to a target bucket in another region. To enable cross-region replication, versioning must be turned on for both source and destination buckets. Cross region replication is commonly used to reduce the latency required to access objects in Amazon S3

Q143) How to create Encrypted EBS volume?
Answer: You need to select Encrypt this volume option in Volume creation page. While creation a new master key will be created unless you select a master key that you created separately in the service. Amazon uses the AWS key management service (KMS) to handle key management.


Q144) Explain stateful and Stateless firewall.
Answer:
Stateful Firewall: A Security group is a virtual stateful firewall that controls inbound and outbound network traffic to AWS resources and Amazon EC2 instances. Operates at the instance level.
Stateless Firewall: A Network access control List (ACL) is a virtual stateless firewall on a subnet level. Supports allow rules and deny rules. Return traffic must be explicitly allowed by rules.

Q145) What is NAT Instance and NAT Gateway?
Answer:
NAT instance: A network address translation (NAT) instance is an Amazon Linux machine Image (AMI) that is designed to accept traffic from instances within a private subnet, translate the source IP address to the Public IP address of the NAT instance and forward the traffic to IWG.

NAT Gateway: A NAT gateway is an Amazon managed resources that is designed tooperate just like a NAT instance but it is simpler to manage and highly available within an availability Zone. To allow instance within a private subnet to access internet resources through the IGW via a NAT gateway.

Q146) What is VPC Peering?
Answer: A VPC peering connection is a networking connection between two VPCs that enables you to route traffic between them using private IPv4 addresses or IPv6 addresses.


Q147) What is MFA in AWS?
Answer: Multi factor Authentication can add an extra layer of security to your infrastructure by adding a second method of authentication beyond just password or access key.




Q148) What are the Authentication in AWS?
Answer:
User Name/Password
Access Key
Access Key/ Session Token

Q149) What is Data warehouse in AWS?
Data ware house is a central repository for data that can come from one or more sources. Organization typically use data warehouse to compile reports and search the database using highly complex queries. 


 150) What is mean by Multi-AZ in RDS?

Answer: Multi AZ allows you to place a secondary copy of your database in another availabilityzone for disaster recovery purpose. 

Multi AZ deployments are available for all types of Amazon
RDS Database engines. When you create s Multi-AZ DB instance a primary instance is created inone Availability Zone and a secondary instance is created by another Availability zone.

Q151) What is Amazon Dynamo DB?
Answer: Amazon Dynamo DB is fully managed NoSQL database service that provides fast and predictable performance with seamless scalability. Dynamo DB makes it simple and Cost effective to store and retrieve any amount of data.


Q152) What is cloud formation?


Answer: Cloud formation is a service which creates the AWS infrastructure using code. It helps to reduce time to manage resources. We can able to create our resources Quickly and faster.

Q153) How to plan Auto scaling?
Answer:
Manual Scaling
Scheduled Scaling
Dynamic Scaling

Q154) What is Auto Scaling group?
Answer: Auto Scaling group is a collection of Amazon EC2 instances managed by the Auto scaling service. Each auto scaling group contains configuration options that control when auto scaling should launch new instance or terminate existing instance.

Q155) Differentiate Basic and Detailed monitoring in cloud watch?
Answer:
Basic Monitoring: Basic monitoring sends data points to Amazon cloud watch every five
minutes for a limited number of preselected metrics at no charge.
Detailed Monitoring: Detailedmonitoring sends data points to amazon CloudWatch every minute and allows data aggregation
for an additional charge.

Q156) What is the relationship between Route53 and Cloud front?
Answer: In Cloud front we will deliver content to edge location wise so here we can use Route 53 for Content Delivery Network. Additionally, if you are using Amazon CloudFront you can configure Route 53 to route Internet traffic to those resources.

Q157) What are the routing policies available in Amazon Route53?
Answer:
Simple
Weighted
Latency Based
Failover
Geolocation

Q158) What is Amazon ElastiCache?
Answer: Amazon ElastiCache is a web services that simplifies the setup and management of distributed in memory caching environment.
Cost Effective
High Performance
Scalable Caching Environment
Using Memcached or Redis Cache Engine





Q159) What is SES, SQS and SNS?
Answer: SES (Simple Email Service): SES is SMTP server provided by Amazon which is designed to send bulk mails to customers in a quick and cost-effective manner.SES does not allows to
configure mail server.

SQS (Simple Queue Service): SQS is a fast, reliable and scalable, fully managed message queuing service. Amazon SQS makes it simple and cost Effective. It is temporary repository for messages to waiting for processing and acts as a buffer between the component producer and the consumer.

SNS (Simple Notification Service): SNS is a web service
that coordinates and manages the delivery or sending of messages to recipients.

Q160) How To Use Amazon Sqs? What Is Aws?
Answer:Amazon Web Services is a secure cloud services stage, offering compute power,database storage, content delivery and other functionality to help industries scale and grow.

Q161) What is the importance of buffer in AWS?
Answer:low price Consume only the amount of calculating, storage and other IT devices needed. No long-term assignation, minimum spend or up-front expenditure is required.
Elastic and Scalable Quickly Rise and decrease resources to applications to satisfy customer demand and control costs. Avoid provisioning maintenance up-front for plans with variable consumption speeds or low lifetimes.


Q162) What is the way to secure data for resounding in the cloud?
Answer:
Avoid storage sensitive material in the cloud. & Read the user contract to find out how your cloud service storing works. & Be serious about passwords. & Encrypt. & Use an encrypted cloud service.

Q163) Name The Several Layers Of Cloud Computing?
Answer:Cloud computing can be damaged up into three main services: Software-as-a-Service(SaaS),
 Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)
 and Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS). 
PaaS in the middle,
and IaaS on the lowest

Q164) What Is Lambda edge In Aws?
Answer:Lambda Edge lets you run Lambda functions to modify satisfied that Cloud Front delivers, executing the functions in AWS locations closer to the viewer. The functions run in response to Cloud Front events, without provisioning or managing server.

Q165) Distinguish Between Scalability And Flexibility?
Answer:Cloud computing offers industries flexibility and scalability when it comes to computing needs: Flexibility. Cloud computing agrees your workers to be more flexible both in and out of
the workplace. Workers can access files using web-enabled devices such as smartphones,laptops and notebooks. In this way, cloud computing empowers the use of mobile technology.
One of the key assistances of using cloud computing is its scalability. Cloud computing allows your business to easily expensive or downscale your IT requests as and when required. For
example, most cloud service workers will allow you to increase your existing resources to accommodate increased business needs or changes. This will allow you to support your commercial growth without exclusive changes to your present IT systems.

Q166) What is IaaS?
þÿAnswer:IaaS is a cloud service that runs services on pay-for-what-you-use basis
IaaS workers
include Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure and Google Compute Engine
Users: IT
Administrators
Q167) What is PaaS?
Answer:PaaS runs cloud platforms and runtime environments to develop, test and manage
software
Users: Software Developers
Q168) What is SaaS?
Answer:In SaaS, cloud workers host and manage the software application on a pay-as-you-go
pricing model
Users: End Customers
Q169) Which Automation Gears Can Help With Spinup Services?
Answer:The API tools can be used for spin up services and also for the written scripts. Persons
scripts could be coded in Perl, bash or other languages of your preference. There is one more
option that is flowery management and stipulating tools such as a dummy or improved
descendant. A tool called Scalar can also be used and finally we can go with a controlled
explanation like a Right scale. Which automation gears can help with pinup service.

Q170) What Is an Ami? How Do I Build One?
Answer:AMI is Amazon machine image basically its template comprising software configuration part 

An Amazon Machine Image (AMI) explains the programs and settings that will be applied
when you launch an EC2 instance. Once you have finished organizing the data, services, and submissions on your ArcGIS Server instance, you can save your work as a custom AMI stored in
Amazon EC2. You can scale out your site by using this institution AMI to launch added instances Use the following process to create your own AMI using the AWS Administration Console:
*Configure an EC2 example and its attached EBS volumes in the exact way you want them
created in the custom AMI.
1. Log out of your instance, but do not stop or terminate it.
2. Log in to the AWS Management Console, display the EC2 page for your region, then click
Instances.
3. Choose the instance from which you want to create a custom AMI.4. Click Actions and click Create Image.
5. Type a name for Image Name that is easily identifiable to you and, optionally, input text for
Image Description.
6. Click Create Image.
Read the message box that appears. To view the AMI standing, go to the AMIs page. Here you can
see your AMI being created. It can take a though to create the AMI. Plan for at least 20 minutes, or
þÿslower if you ve connected a lot of additional applications or data.



Q171) What Are The Main Features Of Amazon Cloud Front?
Answer:Amazon Cloud Front is a web service that speeds up delivery of your static and dynamic web content, such as .html, .css, .js, and image files, to your users.
CloudFront delivers your content through a universal network of data centers called edge locations

Q172) What Are The Features Of The Amazon Ec2 Service?
Answer: 1) Amazon Elastic compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure,resizable compute capacity in the cloud. 
             2) It is designed to make web-scale cloud calculating easier
for designers.
              3)  Amazon EC2 s simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction.

Q173) Explain Storage For Amazon Ec2 Instance.?

Answer:An instance store is a provisional storing type located on disks that are physically attached to a host machine. 

Q174) When attached to an Amazon VPC which two components provide
connectivity with external networks?
Answer:Internet Gateway {IGW)
Virtual Private Gateway (VGW)

Q175) Which of the following are characteristics of Amazon VPC subnets?
Answer:
Each subnet maps to a single Availability Zone.
By defaulting, all subnets can route between each other, whether they are private or public.

Q176) How can you send request to Amazon S3?---IMP need to search
Answer:
You can send requests to Amazon S3 using the REST API
Every interaction with Amazon S3 is either authenticated or anonymous. Authentication is a process of verifying the identity of the requester trying to access an Amazon Web Services (AWS) product. 
Authenticated requests must include a signature value that authenticates the request sender. The signature value is, in part, generated from the requester's AWS access keys (access key ID and secret access key) 

Q177) What is the best approach to anchor information for conveying in the cloud ?
Answer:Backup Data Locally. A standout amongst the most vital interesting points while overseeing information is to guarantee that you have reinforcements for your information, Avoid Storing Sensitive Information. & Use Cloud Services that Encrypt Data. &
Encrypt Your Data. & Install Anti-infection Software. &
Make Passwords Stronger. & Test the Security Measures in Place.

Q178) What is AWS Certificate Manager ?
Answer:AWS Certificate Manager is an administration that lets you effortlessly arrangement, oversee, and send open and private Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS)endorsements for use with AWS administrations and your inward associated assets. SSL/TLS declarations are utilized to anchor arrange interchanges and set up the character of sites over the Internet and additionally assets on private systems. AWS Certificate Manager expels the tedious manual procedure of obtaining, transferring, and reestablishing SSL/TLS endorsements.

Q179) What is the AWS Key Management Service
Answer:AWS Key Management Service (KMS) makes it easy for you to create and manage cryptographic keys and control their use across a wide range of AWS services and in your applications.

Q180) What is Amazon EMR ?
Answer:Amazon Elastic MapReduce (EMR) is one such administration that gives completelyoversaw facilitated Hadoop system over Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).

Q181) What is Amazon Kinesis Firehose ?
Answer:Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose is the least demanding approach to dependably stack gushing information into information stores and examination devices. & It is a completely overseen benefit that consequently scales to coordinate the throughput of your information and requires no continuous organization






Q182) What Is Amazon CloudSearch and its highlights ?
Answer:Amazon CloudSearch is a versatile cloud-based hunt benefit that frames some portion of
Amazon Web Services (AWS). CloudSearch is normally used to incorporate tweaked seek abilities into different applications. As indicated by Amazon, engineers can set a pursuit application up
and send it completely in under 60 minutes.

Q183) Is it feasible for an EC2 exemplary occurrence to wind up an individual from a virtual private cloud?
Answer:Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) empowers you to characterize a virtual
system in your very own consistently disengaged zone inside the AWS cloud, known as a virtual
private cloud (VPC). You can dispatch your Amazon EC2 assets, for example, occasions, into the
subnets of your VPC. Your VPC nearly looks like a conventional system that you may work in
your very own server farm, with the advantages of utilizing adaptable foundation from AWS. Youcan design your VPC; you can choose its IP address extend, make subnets, and arrange course
tables, organize portals, and security settings. You can interface occurrences in your VPC to the
web or to your own server farm

Q184) Mention crafted by an Amazon VPC switch.
Answer:VPCs and Subnets. A virtual private cloud (VPC) is a virtual system committed to your AWS account. It is consistently segregated from other virtual systems in the AWS Cloud. You can
dispatch your AWS assets, for example, Amazon EC2 cases, into your VPC.

Q185) How would one be able to associate a VPC to corporate server farm?
Answer:AWS Direct Connect empowers you to safely associate your AWS condition to your
on-premises server farm or office area over a standard 1 gigabit or 10 gigabit Ethernet fiber-optic
association. AWS Direct Connect offers committed fast, low dormancy association, which
sidesteps web access suppliers in your system way. An AWS Direct Connect area gives access to
Amazon Web Services in the locale it is related with, and also access to different US areas. AWS
Direct Connect enables you to consistently parcel the fiber-optic associations into numerous
intelligent associations called Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN). You can exploit these
intelligent associations with enhance security, separate traffic, and accomplish consistence
necessities.

Q186) Is it conceivable to push off S3 with EC2 examples ?
Answer:Truly, it very well may be pushed off for examples with root approaches upheld by local
event stockpiling. By utilizing Amazon S3, engineers approach the comparative to a great degree
versatile, reliable, quick, low-valued information stockpiling substructure that Amazon uses to
follow its own overall system of sites. So as to perform frameworks in the Amazon EC2 air,
engineers utilize the instruments giving to stack their Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) into
Amazon S3 and to exchange them between Amazon S3 and Amazon EC2. Extra use case may be
for sites facilitated on EC2 to stack their stationary substance from S3.

Q187) What is the distinction between Amazon S3 and EBS ?
Answer:EBS is for mounting straightforwardly onto EC2 server examples. S3 is Object Oriented
þÿStorage that isn t continually waiting be gotten to (and is subsequently less expensive). There is
þÿthen much less expensive AWS Glacier which is for long haul stockpiling where you don tþÿgenerally hope to need to get to it, however wouldn t have any desire to lose it.
There are then
þÿtwo principle kinds of EBS HDD (Hard Disk Drives, i.e. attractive turning circles), which are
genuinely ease back to access, and SSD, which are strong state drives which are excessively
quick to get to, yet increasingly costly.
Finally, EBS can be purchased with or without Provisioned IOPS.
Obviously these distinctions accompany related estimating contrasts, so it merits focusing on
the distinctions and utilize the least expensive that conveys the execution you require.
Q188) What do you comprehend by AWS?
Answer:This is one of the generally asked AWS engineer inquiries questions. This inquiry checks
your essential AWS learning so the appropriate response ought to be clear. Amazon Web
Services (AWS) is a cloud benefit stage which offers figuring power, investigation, content
conveyance, database stockpiling, sending and some different administrations to help you in
your business development. These administrations are profoundly versatile, solid, secure, and
cheap distributed computing administrations which are plot to cooperate and, applications in this
manner made are further developed and escalade.
Q189) Clarify the principle components of AWS?
Answer:The principle components of AWS are:
Highway 53: Route53 is an exceptionally versatile
DNS web benefit.
Basic Storage Service (S3): S3 is most generally utilized AWS stockpiling web
benefit.
Straightforward E-mail Service (SES): SES is a facilitated value-based email benefit and
enables one to smoothly send deliverable messages utilizing a RESTFUL API call or through an
ordinary SMTP.
Personality and Access Management (IAM): IAM gives enhanced character and
security the board for AWS account.Versatile Compute Cloud (EC2): EC2 is an AWS biological
community focal piece. It is in charge of giving on-request and adaptable processing assets with
þÿa pay as you go estimating model.
Flexible Block Store (EBS): EBS offers consistent capacity
arrangement that can be found in occurrences as a customary hard drive.
CloudWatch:
CloudWatch enables the controller to viewpoint and accumulate key measurements and
furthermore set a progression of cautions to be advised if there is any inconvenience.
This is
among habitually asked AWS engineer inquiries questions. Simply find the questioner psyche
and solution appropriately either with parts name or with the portrayal alongside.
Get AWS Online Training
þÿQ190) I m not catching your meaning by AMI? What does it incorporate?
Answer:You may run over at least one AMI related AWS engineer inquiries amid your AWS
designer meet. Along these lines, set yourself up with a decent learning of AMI.
AMI represents
þÿthe term Amazon Machine Image. It s an AWS format which gives the data (an application server,
and working framework, and applications) required to play out the dispatch of an occasion. This
AMI is the duplicate of the AMI that is running in the cloud as a virtual server. You can dispatch
occurrences from the same number of various AMIs as you require. AMI comprises of the
followings:
A pull volume format for a current example
Launch authorizations to figure out which
AWS records will inspire the AMI so as to dispatch the occasions
Mapping for square gadget to
compute the aggregate volume that will be appended to the example at the season of dispatch
Q191) Is vertically scale is conceivable on Amazon occurrence?
Answer:Indeed, vertically scale is conceivable on Amazon example.
This is one of the normalAWS engineer inquiries questions. In the event that the questioner is hoping to find a definite
solution from you, clarify the system for vertical scaling.
Q192) What is the association among AMI and Instance?
Answer:Various sorts of examples can be propelled from one AMI. The sort of an occasion for the
most part manages the equipment segments of the host PC that is utilized for the case. Each kind
of occurrence has unmistakable registering and memory adequacy.
When an example is
propelled, it gives a role as host and the client cooperation with it is same likewise with some
other PC however we have a totally controlled access to our occurrences. AWS engineer inquiries
questions may contain at least one AMI based inquiries, so set yourself up for the AMI theme
exceptionally well.
Q193) What is the distinction between Amazon S3 and EC2?
Answer:The contrast between Amazon S3 and EC2 is given beneath:
Amazon S3
Amazon EC2
The significance of S3 is Simple Storage Service. The importance of EC2 is Elastic Compute
Cloud.
It is only an information stockpiling administration which is utilized to store huge paired
files. It is a cloud web benefit which is utilized to have the application made.
þÿ It isn t required to
run a server. It is sufficient to run a server.
It has a REST interface and utilizations secure
HMAC-SHA1 validation keys. It is much the same as a tremendous PC machine which can deal
with application like Python, PHP, Apache and some other database.
When you are going for an
AWS designer meet, set yourself up with the ideas of Amazon S3 and EC2, and the distinction
between them.
Q194) What number of capacity alternatives are there for EC2 Instance?Answer:There are four stockpiling choices for Amazon EC2 Instance:
Amazon EBS
Amazon EC2 Instance Store
Amazon S3
Adding Storage
Amazon EC2 is the basic subject you may run over while experiencing AWS engineer inquiries
questions. Get a careful learning of the EC2 occurrence and all the capacity alternatives for the
EC2 case.
Q195) What are the security best practices for Amazon Ec2 examples?
Answer:There are various accepted procedures for anchoring Amazon EC2 occurrences that are
pertinent whether occasions are running on-preface server farms or on virtual machines. How
about we view some broad prescribed procedures:
Minimum Access: Make beyond any doubt
that your EC2 example has controlled access to the case and in addition to the system. Offer
access specialists just to the confided in substances.
Slightest Privilege: Follow the vital
guideline of minimum benefit for cases and clients to play out the capacities. Produce jobs with
confined access for the occurrences.
Setup Management: Consider each EC2 occasion a design
thing and use AWS arrangement the executives administrations to have a pattern for the setup of
the occurrences as these administrations incorporate refreshed enemy of infection programming,
security highlights and so forth.
Whatever be the activity job, you may go over security based
AWS inquiries questions. Along these lines, motivate arranged with this inquiry to break the AWS
designer meet.
Q196) Clarify the highlights of Amazon EC2 administrations.Answer:Amazon EC2 administrations have following highlights:
Virtual Computing Environments
Proffers Persistent capacity volumes
Firewall approving you to indicate the convention
Pre-designed layouts
Static IP address for dynamic Cloud Computing
Q197) What is the system to send a demand to Amazon S3?
þÿAnswer: Reply: There are 2 different ways to send a demand to Amazon S3
Using REST API
Using AWS SDK Wrapper Libraries, these wrapper libraries wrap the REST APIs for Amazon
Q198) What is the default number of basins made in AWS?
Answer:This is an extremely straightforward inquiry yet positions high among AWS engineer
inquiries questions. Answer this inquiry straightforwardly as the default number of pails made in
each AWS account is 100.
Q199) What is the motivation behind T2 examples?
Answer:T2 cases are intended for
Providing moderate gauge execution
Higher execution as
required by outstanding task at hand
Q200) What is the utilization of the cradle in AWS?
Answer:This is among habitually asked AWS designer inquiries questions. Give the appropriate
response in straightforward terms, the cradle is primarily used to oversee staQ177) What is the best approach to anchor information for conveying in the cloud ?ck with the
synchronization of different parts i.e. to make framework blame tolerant. Without support,
þÿsegments don t utilize any reasonable technique to get and process demands. Be that as it may,
the cushion makes segments to work in a decent way and at a similar speed, hence results inquicker administrations.




































Q201) What happens when an Amazon EC2 occurrence is halted or ended?
Answer:At the season of ceasing an Amazon EC2 case, a shutdown is performed in a typical way.
From that point onward, the changes to the ceased state happen. Amid this, the majority of the
Amazon EBS volumes are stayed joined to the case and the case can be begun whenever. The
occurrence hours are not included when the occasion is the ceased state.
At the season of
ending an Amazon EC2 case, a shutdown is performed in an ordinary way. Amid this, the erasure
of the majority of the Amazon EBS volumes is performed. To stay away from this, the estimation
of credit deleteOnTermination is set to false. On end, the occurrence additionally experiences
þÿcancellation, so the case can t be begun once more.
Became an AWS Expert with Certification in 25hours
Q202) What are the mainstream DevOps devices?
Answer:In an AWS DevOps Engineer talk with, this is the most widely recognized AWS inquiries
for DevOps. To answer this inquiry, notice the well known DevOps apparatuses with the kind of
þÿhardware
þÿJenkins Continuous Integration Tool
þÿGit Version Control System Tool
þÿNagios Continuous Monitoring Tool
þÿSelenium Continuous Testing Tool
þÿDocker Containerization Tool
þÿPuppet, Chef, Ansible Deployment and Configuration Administration Tools.










Q203) What are IAM Roles and Policies, What is the difference between IAM Roles and Policies.
Answer:-Roles are for AWS services, Where we can assign permission of some AWS service to other Service.þÿ Example Giving S3 permission to EC2 to access S3 Bucket Contents.
-Policies are for users and groups, Where we can assign permission to user s and groups. Example Giving permission to user to access the S3 Buckets.

Q204) What are the Defaults services we get when we create custom AWS VPC?
Answer:
Route Table
Network ACL
Security Group
Q205) What is the Difference Between Public Subnet and Private Subnet ?
Answer:-Public Subnet will have Internet Gateway Attached to its associated Route Table and Subnet,
 -Private Subnet will not have the Internet Gateway Attached to its associated Route Table and Subnet
-Public Subnet will have internet access and Private subnet will not have the internet access directly.

Q206) How do you access the Ec2 which has private IP which is in private Subnet ?
Answer: We can access using VPN if the VPN is configured into that Particular VPC where Ec2 is assigned to that VPC in the Subnet. We can access using other Ec2 which has the Public access.

Q207) We have a custom VPC Configured and MYSQL Database server which is in Private Subnet and we need to update the MYSQL Database Server, What are the Option to do so.
Answer:By using NAT Gateway in the VPC or Launch a NAT Instance ( Ec2) Configure or Attach
the NAT Gateway in Public Subnet ( Which has Route Table attached to IGW) and attach it to theRoute Table which is Already attached to the Private Subnet.





Q208) What are the Difference Between Security Groups and Network ACL
Answer:Security Group defind which traffic is allowed TO or FROM Ec2 Instance 
      where as  ACL  control at the subnet level,  The traffic allowd and deny  TO or FROM a Subnet
         -SG Operate at instace level 
          NACL oprate at subnet level 



Q209) What are the Difference Between Route53 and ELB?
Answer:Amazon Route 53 will handle DNS servers. Route 53 give you web interface through which the DNS can be managed using Route 53, it is possible to direct and failover traffic. This
can be achieved by using DNS Routing Policy.
One more routing policy is Failover Routing policy.
we set up a health check to monitor your application endpoints. If one of the endpoints is not available, Route 53 will automatically forward the traffic to other endpoint.
Elastic Load Balancing
ELB automatically scales depends on the demand, so sizing of the load balancers to handle more
traffic effectively when it is not required.
Q210) What are the DB engines which can be used in AWS RDS?
Answer:
MariaDB
MYSQL DB
MS SQL DBPostgre DB
Oracle DB
Q211) What is Status Checks in AWS Ec2?
Answer: System Status Checks System Status checks will look into problems with instance which needs AWS help to resolve the issue. When we see system status check failure, you can wait for AWS to resolve the issue, or do it by our self.Network connectivity System power Software issues Data Centre sHardware issues Instance Status Checks Instance Status checks will look into issues which need our involvement to fix the issue. if status check fails, we can reboot that particular instance.Failed system status checks Memory Full Corrupted file system Kernel issues



Q212) To establish a peering connections between two VPC s What conditionmust be met?
Answer:
CIDR Block should overlap
CIDR Block should not overlap
VPC should be in the same region
VPC must belong to same account.CIDR block should not overlap between vpc setting up a peering connection . peering connection
is allowed within a region , across region, across different account.

Q213) Troubleshooting with EC2 Instances:
Answer: Instance States
If the instance state is 0/2- there might be some hardware issue
If the instance state is ½-there might be issue with OS.
Workaround-Need to restart the instance, if
still that is not working logs will help to fix the issue.

Q214) How EC2instances can be resized.
Answer: EC2 instances can be resizable(scale up or
scale down) based on requirement

Q215) EBS: its block-level storage volume which we can use after mounting with EC2 instances.
Answer:For types please refer AWS Solution Architect book.
Q216) Difference between EBS,EFS and S3
Answer:
We can access EBS only if its mounted with instance, at a time EBS can be mounted only with one instance.
EFS can be shared at a time with multiple instances
S3 can be accessed without mounting with instances

Q217) Maximum number of bucket which can be crated in AWS.
Answer:100 buckets can be created by default in AWS account.To get more buckets additionally
you have to request Amazon for that.
Q218) Maximum number of EC2 which can be created in VPC.
Answer:Maximum 20 instances can be created in a VPC. we can create 20 reserve instances and
request for spot instance as per demand.



Q219) How EBS can be accessed?
Answer:EBS provides high performance block-level storage which can be attached with runningEC2 instance. Storage can be formatted and mounted with EC2 instance, then it can be accessed.
Q220) Process to mount EBS to EC2 instance
Answer:
þÿDf k
mkfs.ext4 /dev/xvdf
þÿFdisk l
Mkdir /my5gbdata
Mount /dev/xvdf /my5gbdata

Q221) How to add volume permanently with instance.
Answer:With each restart volume will get unmounted from instance, to keep this attached need to
perform below step
Cd /etc/fstab
/dev/xvdf /data ext4 defaults 0
0 <edit the file system name
accordingly>

Q222) What is the Difference between the Service Role and SAML Federated Role.
Answer: Service Role are meant for usage of AWS Services and based upon the policies attached
to it,it will have the scope to do its task. Example : In case of automation we can create a servicerole and attached to it.
Federated Roles are meant for User Access and getting access to AWS as
per designed role. Example : We can have a federated role created for our office employee and
corresponding to that a Group will be created in the AD and user will be added to it.

Q223) How many Policies can be attached to a role.
Answer: 10 (Soft limit), We can have till 20.
Q224) What are the different ways to access AWS.
Answer:3 Different ways (CLI, Console, SDK)
Q225) How a Root AWS user is different from in IAM User.
Answer: Root User will have acces to entire AWS environment and it will not have any policy attached to it. While IAM User will be able to do its task on the basis of policies attached to it.

Q226) What do you mean by Principal of least privilege in term of IAM.
Answer: Principal of least privilege means to provide the same or equivalent permission to the user/role.

Q227) What is the meaning of non-explicit deny for an IAM User.
Answer: When an IAM user is created and it is not having any policy attached to it,in that case he will not be able to access any of the AWS Service until a policy has been attached to it.

Q228) What is the precedence level between explicit allow and explicit deny.
Answer: Explicit deny will always override Explicit Allow.

Q229) What is the benefit of creating a group in IAM.
Answer:Creation of Group makes the user management process much simpler and user with the same kind of permission can be added in a group and at last addition of a policy will be much
simpler to the group in comparison to doing the same thing manually.

Q230) What is the difference between the Administrative Access and Power User Access in term of pre-build policy.
Answer: Administrative Access will have the Full access to AWS resources. While Power UserAccess will have the Admin access except the user/groupmanagement permission.


Q231) What is the purpose of Identity Provider.
Answer: Identity Provider helps in building the trust between the AWS and the Corporate AD environment while we create the Federated role.

Q232) What are the benefits of STS (Security Token Service).
Answer: It help in securing the AWS environment as we need not to embed or distributed the AWS Security credentials in the application. As the credentials are temporary we need not to
rotate them and revoke them.
Q233) What is the benefit of creating the AWS Organization.
Answer: It helps in managing the IAM Policies, creating the AWS Accounts programmatically, helps in managing the payment methods and consolidated billing.

Q234) What is the maximum file length in S3?
Answer: utf-8 1024 bytes
Q235) Which activity cannot be done using autoscaling?
Answer:Maintain fixed running of ec2

Q236) How will you secure data at rest in EBS?
Answer: EBS data is always secure

Q237) What is the maximum size of S3 Bucket?
Answer: 5TBQ
238) Can objects in Amazon s3 be delivered through amazon cloud front?
Answer:Yes
Q239) Which service is used to distribute content to end user service using global network of edge location?
Answer: Virtual Private Cloud

Q240) What is ephemaral storage?
Answer: Temporary storage
Q241) What are shards in kinesis aws services?
Answer: Shards are used to store data in Kinesis.
Q242) Where can you find the ephemeral storage?
Answer: In Instance store service.

Q243) I have some private servers on my premises also i have distributed someof My workload on the public cloud,what is the architecture called?
Answer:Virtual private cloud
Q244) Route 53 can be used to route users to infrastructure outside ofaws.True/false?
Answer: False
Q245) Is simple workflow service one of the valid Simple Notification Service
subscribers?
Answer: No
Q246) Which cloud model do Developers and organizations all around the world
leverage extensively?
Answer: IAAS-Infrastructure as a service.
Q247) Can cloud front serve content from a non AWS origin server?Answer: No
Q248) Is EFS a centralised storage service in AWS?
Answer: Yes
Q249) Which AWS service will you use to collect and process ecommerce data for near real time analysis?
Answer: Both Dynamo DB & Redshift
Q250) An high demand of IOPS performance is expected around 15000.Which EBS volume type would you recommend?
Answer: Provisioned IOPS.
Q251) What are various vendors that provides that cloud computing services ?
Below are some of the vendors that provides that cloud services.
AWS
Azure
GCP
SAP cloud
Oracle cloud
Red Hat cloud
Verizon and so on.
Q252) What is the difference between a user and a role in AWS and under what service does this concept come under?
A user and a role is used to provide access to the AWS services. When a user is created, you will have credentials for the user but when you create a role, no credentials are created. So your roles
are more secured when compared to the users. This concept comes under the IAM service thatdeals with the access to the AWS services.
Q253) What are the types of access that you can give to your users ?
You can give 2 types of access to your users, programmatic access and console access.
Q254) What are the different instance types we have in EC2?
We have the below type of instance types in EC2,
General-purpose
Compute-optimized
Storage optimized
Memory-optimized
Accelerated computing
Q255) What are the pricing models in EC2 ?
Below are the pricing models in EC2,
On-demand
Spot instances
Scheduled instances
Reserved instances
Dedicated instances
Dedicated hosts
Saving plans
Capacity reservations
Q256) What is the difference between Instance store volume and EBS volumes?Instance store volumes are used for temporary data. That is, the data is available as long as the
instance is running. F you stop or terminate the instance, the data is lost.
EBS volumes are used
for persistent data. That is, the data can be made available even when the instance is not running.
Q257) What are the types of EBS volumes?
Below are the types in EBS volumes,
General-purpose
Provisioned IOPS
Magnetic
Cold HDD
Throughput optimized
Q258) What are key pairs and what does it consists of?
Key pairs are login information that you can use to login to the EC2 instances. It consists of public key and private key that will make for the key pairs.
Q259) How can you monitor the health status of your EC2 instances?
You can monitor the EC2 instances by creating a health check for the EC2 instances. You have this option when creating the load balancer and can be used by the load balancer to decide
whether to send the load/traffic to the EC2 instances.
Q260) What is the monitoring tool in AWS and what are the metrics that you can
monitor for EC2?
Cloudwatch is the monitoring tool in AWS. By using this, you can monitor metrics like, CPU
utilization, disk reads, disk writes, network in, network out and so on.
Get AWS Online Training
Q261) What is the S3 service? What are the different storage types and which isthe default one?
S3 is storage for the internet. You can use this S3 service to store any data, any time and access
the data from any location. Below are the types of S3 storage,
Standard frequently accessed
Standard infrequently accessed
One-zone infrequently accessed
Glacier
Glacier archive
Intelligent tiering
Reduced redundancy storage.
By default, whenever you create the S3 buckets, standard frequently accessed will be used.
Q262) How can control the access to your S3 buckets ?
þÿYou can control the access by using the ACL Access Control List and the bucket policies.
Q263) What is the difference between EBS and EFS?
þÿEBS Elastic Block Store is attached to a single instance at a time, whereas EFS Elastic File
System can be attached to multiple instances at the same time.

Q264) What is the service that can be used for data migration?
Snowball is a service that can be used for data migration. You can use this service to move your data from one region to another region, import from S3, export from S3 or for local usage.

Q265) What is the difference between the Internet gateway and NAT gateway?
The Internet gateway is used to give internet access to your instances that are running the public
þÿsubnets and NAT Network Address Translation is used to give internet access to that instances
that are running in the private subnets.
Q266) What is an EIP ?
þÿEIP Elastic IP address is a static IP address that be used to mask the failure of EC2 instances.
When you stop and start an instance, you public IP address will change. To avoid this, you can
use an EIP that will maintain the same IP address when you start and stop and EC2 instance.
Q267) What is the difference between a security group and NACL?
Security groups NACL
Created at the instance level. Created at the subnet level.
þÿ You can add only allow rules.
þÿYou can add allow and deny rules.
Does not have any rule numbers. Follows rule numbering system.
Statefull.
Stateless.

Q267) What is the auditing service in AWS ?
Cloud trail is the auditing service that can be used in AWS. By default, all the actions that a user takes in the AWS account is logged as an event in the CloudTrail service. You can see the  eventsfor the last 90 days by default.
Q268) What is cloud formation ?
CloudFormation is also known as Infrastructure As A Service. This service can be used to
automate the infrastructure setup by writing scripts. You can write the script in either JSON or
YAML format. Both are supported by cloudFormation.
Q269) What are the types of routing policies we have in Route53 ?
We have the below routing policies in Route53,
Simple
Weighted
Latency
FailoverGeolocation
Multivalue answer
Q270) What is cloudFront ?
CloudFront is the content delivery network in AWS. In CloudFront, you have edge locations that act as your cache locations that are utilized by CloudFront to cache the contents.

Q271) What are the types you have in storage gateway ?
There are 3 types in storage gateway,
File gateway
Volume gateway
Tape gateway
Q272) What are the types you have in kinesis ?
There are 3 types in kinesis,
Kinesis streams
Kinesis firehose
Kinesis analytics
Q272) What is the command that you can use to login to the command line tool
?
You can use the aws configure command to login to the command line tool. This will prompt
you for the access key and secret key to login to the terminal.
Q273) What is the command to copy contents from S3 bucket to an EC2 server ?
You can use the below command,
aws s3 cp s3://<S3 bucket name> <destination>
Q274) Which is the service that is known as serverless computing service ?
Lambda is the service that is known as serverless computing. With this service, you do not have
to worry about provisioning servers or managing any servers.
Q275) What are key pairs ?
Key pairs are you login information that you can use to login to the EC2 servers. Key pairs
consists of public key and private key that make up for the key pairs.
Q276) What is user data in AWS ?
User data can be used to write the boot-up script that you can use to execute certain commands
when your server is starting up. Whenever you want to automate certain tasks in your server, you
can make use of the user data section for your boot-up scripts.
Q277) How can you encrypt the data in S3 ?
You can use AES-256 and KMS to encrypt your data in S3. KMS is your Key Management Service
to encrypt your data in S3.


RDS: 
    RDS is a Relational database service
    Its managed by AWS 
    It Allow you to create a database in the cloud and manage via AWS 
        - Postgrey 
        - Oracle 
        - MySQL 
        - MariaDB
        - SQL Server
        - Aurora : 

Elastic Cache Database:
 - This is an in-memory database with High Performance and Low latency 
 - Its managed by Redis or Memcached

DyanamoDB: 
- Fully managed and highly Available with replication across 3 AZ
- No SQL database 
- its serverless database
- its fast and consistent performance 
- It's a key-value database
DyanamoDB Accelerator:
Fully managed in-memory database 

======================================================
ECS: 
- AWS take care of start and stop instances 

ECR: Elastic Container registry 
- private docker regitry on AWS 
- where we can store images 





VPC: 
Steps: create VPC 
Step 2: Automatically created a subnet
Step 3: Create IG automatically IG is in detached mode you need to active it once it's active 
Step 4: go to route and create one public route once the route is created edit then  add  0.0.0.0/0 in the route table and attach IG on it once the below process is done 
Step 5: lunch instance in a private and public subnet. public subnet able to get internet and private subnet not able to get it 
Step 6: To get internet in a private subnet Ec2 instance we need to configure the NAT gateway on 
Step 7: During the Creation of the NAT gateway you need to allocate an EIP address and NAT gateway allocated in the public subnet to get internet to a private subnet 
Step 8 : Once the NAT gateway is created need to add in the route table then a Private SUbnet Ec2 instance able to get internet 
Step 9: For VPC Peering you need to get the VPC ID of Another VPC after creating VPC peering still you're not able to ping another region/account VPC for that another vpc needs to accept your request and add a route in both VPC then its work  
Step 10: For VPC peering both VPC CIDR should be different  















