1) How to Make Multicloud connection (AWS and GCP) ?
Ans : With the help of  site-to-site VPN we can do that 

2) Which of the most encryption method in AWS ? 
Ans : AES-256 we used for encrption method 

3) Have you ever create IAM customize Policy in AWS  if yes can you explain senarios ?
Ans :  Yes i have created cutomized inline policy during cross account access of S3 bucket 

4) We have two accunts Production and  staging enviroment how to migrate production ec2 instnace in staging Ec2 account ?
Ans :  
      Step 1:Create a custom AMI from the instance that you want to use as the source account. Be sure to include all required EBS data volumes in the AMI. Be sure that the AMI doesn't have a static IP configuration, as this can result in connectivity issues.
      Step 2:Share the AMI with the target account using either the Amazon EC2 console
      Step 3: From the target account, find the AMI using the EC2 console or the AWS CLI
      Step 4: Launch a new instance from the shared AMI on the target account. To import a key pair from a previous account, see Import your own public key to Amazon EC2. 
5) VPC peering support 2 account ?
Ans : Yes using VPC pering we can connect 2 accounts 

6) I have S3 bucket i want to move data from s3 bucket standrad to s3 bucket Glacier in every 30 days how can i do that?
Ans: You can use S3 life cycle Policy for that

7) How to restrick perticular region in AWS 
Ans: You need to create policy in that policy you need to mension region name that you want to restric

8) We have 10 account its difficult to manage all account billing is there any service how can do that ? 
Ans: Yes we can use AWS orgainztion service to manage billing 

9) How to upgraded Ec2 instance type from t2 tire to m2.small ?
Ans: first  stop  Ec2 instance then click on instance setting located on action section then click on change instance type 

10) When you use AWS configure command then what are the things they asked 
Ans : 
      AWS Access Key ID [None]: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
      AWS Secret Access Key [None]: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
      Default region name [None]: us-west-2
      Default output format [None]: json
      
11) I have created snapshot then  i have created AMI using snapshot  then i have deleted snapshot so can i created Instance using only AMI ?
Ans : You can't delete a snapshot of the root device of an EBS volume used by a registered AMI. You must first deregister the AMI before you can delete the snapshot.

12) We have S3 bucket and Ec2 instnace both are in private subnet and i want to connect s3 bucket from Ec2 instance how can i do that ? 
Ans: You need to create VPC endpoint (VPC end point is mechanisum that connect your resorces privatly)and IAM User 

13) How to create bulk AWS accounts and how can i managed through single accounts ?
Ans: with the help of AWS organiztion we can do it and and we can manage it through AWS management account 

14) how we will login to these newly created account ?that created by aws orgainztion 
Ans: you will never get username and password you can login using  IAM Role and Account ID

15) my S3 bucket only shoud be access from my office networks from other networks its not accessible how you can achived this ?
Ans: you need to create S3 bucket policy in that policy you need to add use Office Public Ip address you you can access

16) What is AWS direct connect ?
Ans: With the help of the direct connect we can connect AWS network with our local network

17) S3 bucket works on which protocol ?
Ans: S3 is accessed using web-based protocols that use standard HTTP(S) and a REST-based application programming interface (API).

18) In AWS where the VPC comes in picture ?
Ans: During Ec2 instance creation time  

19) can we change VPC after creation instance ?
Ans: It's not possible to move an existing instance to another subnet, Availability Zone, or VPC 

20) How to increse memroy of instance ?
Ans: We can not increase memory we need to upgread instance type

21) 2/2 check ? 
Ans: 1) System reachability check passed 2) Instance reachability check passed

22) How can i enable static website in S3?
Ans :
    Navigate to S3 in the AWS Console.
    • Click into your bucket.
    • Click the “Properties” section.
    • Click the “Static website hosting” option.
    • Select “Use this bucket to host a website”.
    • Enter “index.html” as the Index document.
   
23) How to share AMI in another account ?
Ans : Click on AMI then click on AMI Permission located on action  button then choose private under that shared account mainsion and add account ID

24) what is cross-zone  loadbalanceing ? 
Ans: 

25) difference between A record and C record ?
Ans : hostname to one or more IP addresses, while the CNAME record maps a hostname to another hostname.\

26) How to enable helthcheck in private VPC ?
Ans: For you need to create cloud watch metric and associate cloud watch alarm then create helth check that check the alarm  itself 

27) Can i attach single volume to multiple instance?
Ans : Yes you need to enable multi-attach Option this is used for only Provision Ios SSD volume 

28) difference between public and private hosted zone?
Ans: public domain can be access from anyware and private hosted zone access from under server

29) Can we use private hosted zone if we are not VPC?
Ans: “Private Hosted Zone” is primarily associated with a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and they cannot be queried outside of associated VPCs.

30) Can i point domain in S3 bucket ?
Ans: Yes we can Point 

31) what are the defult record you get when you create domain?
Ans: Ns and SOA (start of authority )

32) What is RTO and RPO ? 
Ans: RTO stands for Recovery Time Objective and is a measure of how quickly after an outage an application must be available again.
     RPO, or Recovery Point Objective, refers to how much data loss your application can tolerate

33) What is secure why to connect to AWS server from office network ?
Ans: AWS Direct Connect enables you to securely connect your AWS environment to your on-premises data centre or office location over a standard 1Gb or 10Gb Ethernet fibre-optic connection.

34) What is SCP in AWS ?
Ans: Service control policies (SCPs) are a type of organization policy that you can use to manage permissions in your organization.

35) what is presigned url ?
Ans: allow user to access tmporery basis in that case our object always private 

37) what is AWS direct connect and VPN ?
Ans: VPN connectivity utilizes the public Internet, which can have unpredictable performance and despite being encrypted, can present security concerns. AWS Direct Connect bypasses the public Internet and establishes a secure, dedicated connection from your infrastructure into AWS.

38) WHat is launch configuration ?
ANs: instance configuration template that an Auto Scaling group uses to launch EC2 instances.

39) Defaut DNS IP in AWS VPC?
Ans: Ans: 10.0.0.0/20 10.0.0.2
